---
layout: default
title: "[BꜶD] 01. Alone in Detainment"
date: 2015-04-18 12:43:23 -0400
permalink: /baud01-alone-in-detainment/
categories:
 - BꜶD
tags:
 - prose
 - first
description: "A woman awaits her sentancing in the jail of her space station."
---

## Alone in Detainment

***

| [BꜶD] #01 | {{ page.description }} | 700 Words, ~3:30 on average | Published on {{ page.date }} |
{: .synopsis}

***


It was silent, save for the fan in the corner.

These big, metal boxes with grates on four sides were everywhere, and
they all worked tirelessly to do two things: take in the old, stale
air and revitalize it for another use, and pump the result back out
into the same room. They were absolutely necessary, in a place with no
trees or other flora to do the same job, and because of this it was
vital that they remain clean and in working order.

Most of the maintenance workers were very familiar with them: If one
was malfunctioning, or getting dusty, or being blocked off, then it
was first priority for any maintenance member to set the fans
right. It was rare that they needed more than a quick cleaning, or a
minute of deactivation before being rebooted... But they had all
needed to reassemble one in working order before being assigned to
their final post.

This unit was working fine, steadily taking in and putting out air in
a constant, flowing stream. In fact, there was only one thing amiss
about it at all:

A woman had decided to sit on top of it.

She was resting her head on her knees, arms wrapped tightly around
them, hiding her face. Her hair was short, black, and messy: It had a
slight curl to it, which announced itself no matter how short it was
trimmed. This she grabbed now, both hands pulling on it slightly as
she groaned near-silently. She ran her hands through it a few times,
scratching, before one came to rest on the back of her neck, and the
other (her right), fell to her side.

She wore dark gray boots; boots of the maintenance crew. They came up
to mid-calf, laced the whole way up, with a pair of buckles over the
laces for extra stability. She kept them well out of the way of the
vents, out of well established habit. They hugged the legs of her jump
suit tightly, and colored the same as they were, it was easy to assume
they were part of the same garment.

Her jump suit, however, had a single light gray line running up her
thigh, hip, and side. It traced the sides of her body, splitting her
arms, neck, and legs. There was only a single break in this line, and
that was at her waist, where a bright orange line crossed as if it
were a belt. At the orange line's center was a large "D".

Her clothes fit her tightly, just as everyone's did. Loose clothes
were a sign of sickness or mischief; when clothes no longer fit, they
could easily be replaced by ones that did, for free. One of the boons
of living here. That said, she had a fairly large frame: Not
overweight, but wide shoulders and very wide hips coupled with work
that kept her active each day.

And on her wrist, the wrist of her right hand, which lay at her side,
was a solid iron ring. It perfectly matched the choker around her
neck, and both seemed impossible to remove: no clasps, no buckles, no
seams. She ran her fingers once again over the back of the choker, in
hopes that she had been wrong the last however many times she had done
it.

...

She wasn't.

Her thin, hooded eyes opened slowly and gazed sorrowfully at the
ground. *I'm doomed. They'll leave me here for another few hours,
decide what to do with me, and that will be that. Goodbye Shera.* She
didn't want to look, but she knew she would anyway, and she might as
well get it over with.

Craning her neck to her left, she peeked at the far wall. It was hard
to see through the yellow field which burned her fingers when she
tried to touch it earlier. But, four large red digits took up the top
third of the wall, and easily shone through clear enough to
see. 21:32.

A shiver raced itself down her spine, and her face snapped itself back
to rest against her knees. *One hour left. Then it'll all be over. For
me, at least.*

***
