---
layout: default
title: '[IDS] 01. Graduation'
date: Mon, 26 Feb 2018 21:18:04 -0500
permalink: /ids01-graduation/
categories:
 - IDS
tags:
 - series
 - prose
description: "The daughter of a newly-established colony's former captain graduates from university and prepares for her first day of real work."
---


## Graduation

***

| [IDS] #01 | {{ page.description }} | 1293 Words, ~6:28 on average | Published on {{ page.date }} |
{: .synopsis}

***

Landing on a spacecraft is always dodgey.

After a year as a community 300 strong, we were finally landing on our
new home: Istara, the latest of the human colony worlds. Looking at
the screen in front of us, the bluish-brown mottling of color was
overwhelming beneath a mix of dingy grey clouds. Every pair of eyes,
young and old, were looking with joyous apprehension at what would
soon be standing ever presently beneath us.

Most of us were from Earth: That beautiful, overcrowded mess of a
planet we left behind through a lottery over one year ago. It was a
bit of a relief at first, to leave that world behind. Aside from the
radiation from multiple centuries of warfare none of us were alive to
have a say in, and the constantly shifting weather supplied by our
functional-but-synthetic solution for the global temperature problem,
there were just too many people living there. 

Having Your family's number called by the space lottery was
exhilarating, but also terrifying: It meant You had 6 months to
prepare to leave everything—friends, extended family, property,
wealth, jobs–behind for a new existence so far away that You knew You
would never be returning, no matter what. The science-fiction dreams
of space-wide taxis were still a long way off… So far off, Earth would
likely not see them. And we realized this a half-century ago, when we
all voluntarily registered for the selective relocation mandatory
under global law.

The Earth, at long last, was about used up. Get out while You can.

The few colonists picked up en route were so different from us
already: Dressing in strange clothes, with heavily distinct accents
developed from speaking with the same people for many years, on other
worlds. They were human, there was no doubt… But they were as
different as humans could be.

Is that what awaits us on Istara? Will we… Will I change that much
before I pass? Or do You have to be born into it? I look around, at
the faces I've lived amongst for the last fifty-four weeks, and I see
good people. Once we've founded Istara's colony, how many will stay
the same? How many will change to the point of non-recognition,
without a single memorable feature about them, aside from that face?

Will I be the same? Should I have accepted my family's calling to the
stars?

Hope springs eternal below us,

A new world, a new place 

seperated by space and stars,

without a way to return home,

forever to set our own pace,

Alone.

» Cpt. Casey Jewel, 01-01-0001 IY

---

» 14-25-0052 IY 0821

Petya Jewel slid a heavy yellow vest over her shoulders with a
sigh. She buried her brown hands in thick, bright yellow gloves to
match the new vest she was wearing. A helmet followed, completely
covering her short-cut hair.

“All ready here.” She said in an automatic tone of voice.

Her mother, the Captain, stepped forward to inspect her. She fussed a
bit with certain parts of her armor, but in the end, nodded. “You
*are* all set. Today's the day, like it or not, anyway” A sad smile
was crawling its way across her face as she spoke. “I am proud of You,
Pet, for taking this mantle from me. Never forget the service You do
for all of us, no matter how hard things get out there. You are the
reason we, Istara, can continue living as we do.”

Petya smiled at her mother as she continued on her speech, but her
mind was elsewhere: Out in the vast and uncharted fields beyond their
domed settlement, in the areas hidden from their people's experience
on this planet. Discovering and documenting new things for the future,
allowing us to understand the world around us ever-so-slightly more
than they already did.

And then, she saw the diploma her mother had in her left hand.

“Here it is. Happy Birthday, Pet. Here's to many more.” She handed
over the metal diploma, already framed and ready to be left behind. It
read:

> This diploma recognizes Petya C. Jewel's accomplishments in the
> fields of Xenobiology and Xenopology, as noted by the First
> University of Istara on this, her 25th birthday, 14/25/0052.

She smiled at it for a moment, setting the plaque-like diploma down.

“I’ll make You proud, Mom. I promise.” She said.

The Captain embraced her, holding on for a moment before suddenly
letting go and returning to her usual, stoic state. “I’m sure You
will, Pet.” She turns away. “Now get going. I’m sure Your troupe is
waiting for You.”

She takes one last look at the diploma, and aa longer one at her
mother. Then she salutes, turns, and leaves the office, shutting the
door behind her.


---

In the midsummer’s heat outside of her mother’s office, Petya can
*feel* the nerves she’d had before melt away beneath her newly
acquired armor. She takes a long breath—in… and out…—before regrowing
her usual carefree smile. Thumbing her right wrist with her left hand,
an image appears in front of her face. Small voices begin to fall from
it, ones she recognizes nearly as well as her own.

“How’d it go, Pet?” asked one voice, quickly followed by a brighter
one asking, “You pass the *final* final exam?”

“You bet! It’s in the bag… or, on the desk, anyway. No sense bringin’
a big hunk of metal along with us, right?”

“Yeah, I’d prolly end up carryin’ it anyway.” The brighter voice said,
with a laugh shared all around. “You eat yet?”

“Not yet,” responded Petya. “How about You two?”

“Nah. Come on down, we’ll find somethin’ near the SEZ.”

“Aight. Seeya-soon!” Petya dropped her cupped hand on her wrist,
closing the call. Her gloves felt heavy and foreign on her hands, as
though someone else had closed the call for her… Something she would
have to get used to, especially with her friends having their own
armor as well. She looked around, finding the nearest railway.

With a palm on the ticket desk, she spoke the words “South End Zone.”
Numbers flashed in front of her for a moment, and then a ticket popped
out. This, of course, she immediately dropped on the floor. She cursed
her newly blocky fingers, but knew she’d have probably dropped it
either way. Retrieving it from the ground, she notices an abandoned
leaf of paper. 

Paper? *Here?* Even the card she now had cradled in her palm was made of
plastic; paper was something used sparingly—if even then—because of
the great need for plants of all kinds in Istara. A large part of the
job she’d just gotten was trying to find new plants to grow, or at
least new ways to grow them. To think someone casually littered with
something so precious…

She had to pick it up. Wrinkled, torn, and weathered as it was, she
could still make out the letters written on it… Or at least, she could
have, if they were letters. The strange symbols on the sheet of paper
before her were unlike any letters she knew. Was it one of the old
languages, the ones from earth? 

Or maybe someone was just doodling… But on *paper*? What a waste that
would be. 

She stood contemplating the writing before her for a few minutes,
before the ringing of the train’s bell brought her out of her own
curiousity. She flashed the colored piece of plastic ticket to the
guards, and managed to make it onto the train before it left the
station.


* * *
